For our first machine
learning exploration,
we're going to build an extremely simple
form of object recognition system.
Now although the example we'll use is very
simple, it does reflect many of the same
key machine learning concepts that go into
building real world commercial systems.
The dataset we're going to use is a small,
very simple,
example dataset derived from
one originally created by Dr.
Iain Murray at the University
of Edinburgh for the task of
training a classifier to distinguish
between different types of fruit.
So to create the original dataset, Dr.
Murray went to a nearby store,
bought a few dozen oranges, lemons, and
apples of different varieties, and
recorded their measurements in a table.
So he sat down and
he looked at the height and
the width, estimated their mass,
and so forth.
So, we've formatted his original
data slightly and added one or
two extra simulated features such as
a color score for instructional purposes.
This dataset is called
fruit_data_with_colors.txt.
And it's included in the folder of
materials that you downloaded for
this course.
Now you might think that fruit
prediction is a sort of silly and
impractical scenario.
And given the limited nature of this
dataset, it is a bit of a toy example.
But actually, food companies do indeed
now rely on machine learning systems
that aren't all that different in concept
from the ones we're about to build, so
they can do automated quality control.
And in fact, there do exist for
example, real systems used by
fruit shipping companies that screen for
rotten oranges during processing.
Now the features that they use in
building these systems are a little more
sophisticated than the ones
we'll look at here.
So for example,
quality control systems for
rotten orange detection use ultraviolet
light that can detect interior decay,
which is often less visible than
just by looking on the surface.
Anyway, to solve machine
learning problems,
you can thing of the input
data as a table.
Where each object, so in our case a piece
of fruit, is represented by a row,
and the attributes of the object, the
measurement, the color, the size, and so
forth in our case for a piece of fruit,
the features of the fruit are represented
by the values that you
see across the columns.
In a supervised learning problem,
the dataset will also typically contain
a special column with
the label of the object,
if the dataset does not
have such a field already.
Sometimes you can derive it from
information that's in one or more columns.
So, to make sure you're ready to continue,
make sure you've run the following code
snippet that loads the proper libraries
we're going to need to proceed.
And we'll show those here now.
So the first thing we are going to
do is to load the fruit dataset
file using the very handy
read table command in pandas.
Now, this will read the dataset from disk,
and
store it into a data frame variable
that we'll call fruits here.
Okay, let's look at this dataset and dump
out the first few rows of the data frame.
So, here we can see that each row of
the dataset represents one piece of fruit
as represented by several features
that are in the table's columns.
So, in order,
the columns that we see are fruit label.
So this is the training
label that we used.
It's a number that corresponds
to the general type of fruit.
So for example, one is an apple,
two is a mandarin orange,
three is a regular orange, and so forth.
So this label was supplied by
the human creator of the dataset.
The fruit name and fruit subtype columns
contain text descriptions of the general
and specific fruit categories.
And the fruit name corresponds,
it's a text form of the corresponding
fruit label in the same row.
Now, we won't be using these
name columns as features.
I've just included them here to make
the dataset a bit more readable for
our purposes.
After that, the features in this
representation include measurements for
each fruit that capture its mass in grams
and its width and height in centimeters.
And finally, there's a feature stored
in a column called color score that's
meant to be a single number that captures
a rough idea of the color of the fruit.
So in a real system, this would actually
be something more sophisticated,
like a histogram of
the distribution of colors, or
maybe the pixels from an actual image or
video of the fruit.
But for our purposes, we're going to
just summarize the color along
a spectrum scale that'll
be a handy summary that we can use
that will just be easy to visualize.
So scores close to one
mean the fruit is red.
Scores around 0.7 indicate yellow,
and so forth.
So, looking at this data frame, we can see
that it contains 59 rows corresponding
to 59 different pieces of fruit that have
been measured and entered into the table.
So our goal here is to build
a classifier from this data
that can predict the correct
type of fruit for any given
observation of its features such as mass,
height, width, and color score.
So for example, can we tell based on
the color score and the dimensions,
the difference between an orange and
a lemon and have the classifier predict
the type of piece of fruit correctly
just from its observed measurements?
Now, assuming for the moment that we
already we had a classifier ready to go,
how would we know if its predictions
were likely to be accurate?
Well, we could choose a fruit sample,
called a test sample, for
which we already had a label.
So we could feed the features of that
piece of fruit into the classifier, and
then compare the label that
the classifier predicts
with the actual true
label of the fruit type.
So, here's a very important point though,
if we use one of our labeled
fruit examples in the data that we use to
train the classifier, we can't also use
that same fruit sample later as a test
sample to also evaluate the classifier.
Why is that?
Well, a key ability that our classifier
needs to have is that it needs to work
well on any input sample, any new pieces
of fruit that we might see in the future,
not just on the ones that we
have on our training set.
Because our classifier could simply
memorize every sample in the training set,
it'd be pretty trivial to just
give back the correct label for
any one of the same samples later, right?
So, measuring the classifier's performance
later using the same samples that
we've used to train it in the first
place doesn't tell us anything about
how well the classifier is likely to work
for a fruit that we haven't seen before.
It will only tell us what we already
know about what's in the training set.
So since our only source of labeled
data is the dataset we've been given,
to estimate how well the classifier
will do on future samples,
what we'll do is split the original
dataset into two parts.
We'll have an array of labeled
samples called the training set
that will be used to train the classifier.
And then we'll hold out
the remaining labeled samples and
put them into a second separate
array called the test set
that will be used to then
evaluate the trained classifier.
So to create training and
test sets from a input dataset,
Scikit-learn provides a handy function
that will do this split for us,
called, not surprisingly,
train test split.
And here's an example of
how we're going to use it.
This function randomly
shuffles the dataset and
splits off a certain percentage of the
input samples for use as a training set,
and then puts the remaining samples into a
different variable for use as a test set.
So in this example, we're using a 75-25%
split of training versus test data.
And that's a pretty standard
relative split that's used.
It's a good rule of thumb to use in
deciding what proportion of training
versus test might be helpful.
As a reminder,
when we're using Scikit-learn,
we'll denote the data that we have using
different flavors of the variable X,
capital X, which is typically a two
dimensional array or data frame.
And the notation we'll use for labels
will be typically based on lowercase y,
which is usually a one dimensional array,
or a scalar.
Now, note the use of
the random state parameter in
the train_test_split function.
So this random state parameter provides
a seed value to the function's internal
random number generator.
If we choose different values for
that seed value,
that will result in different randomized
splits for training and test.
So, if we want to get the same
training and test split each time,
we just make sure to pass in the same
value of the random state parameter.
And so here, we're going to set that
parameter to zero for all our examples.
The training test split function will
put the training set here into X_train,
the test set into X_test,
the training labels into y_train,
and the test labels into y_test.
So this is a 75-25 partitioning of
the original data into these two parts.
And this is the variable naming
convention we'll use for
pretty much all of our coding.
We'll put the rows of
the data without the label,
the training instances into
this capital X variable, and
the list of corresponding labels for those
rows into a variable called lowercase y.
When using the training set and
the test set, we'll then
use X_train that holds the training
instances to train the classifier,
and X_test to evaluate the classifier
after it's been trained.
And we're going to show a short snippet
of code here now that illustrates
how to do that.
So here we can see the results of the
function, applying this train_test_split
function, you can see that it has indeed
split our fruit dataset into training and
test sets with the correct
proportion of samples.
Now that we have a training and
a test set, we're ready for the next step.
And we'll look now into more
depth at the data itself before
we proceed with giving it to
a machine learning algorithm.